Smart Hydro-Powered Traffic and Energy System

Overview

This project implements an intelligent hydro-powered energy management system integrated with traffic and lighting control. The system uses computer vision, AI, and Arduino-based actuation to optimize energy storage, traffic flow, and roadway lighting. The hydroelectric system stores energy like water, rotates turbines, and distributes power efficiently, while the AI monitors traffic density and decides the optimal lighting and energy usage.

The project demonstrates the combination of computer vision, machine learning, robotics, and energy management in a fully automated system.

Features

Real-time vehicle detection using OpenCV
AI-driven traffic density analysis
Dynamic control of road lighting based on traffic
Hydro-powered energy accumulation and turbine management
Arduino-controlled valves and actuators for energy distribution
Fully integrated system with AI as the central controller
System Architecture

[Traffic Camera] --> [Computer Vision (OpenCV)] --> [AI Module] --> [Control Module (Python)] --> [Arduino] --> [Hydro Plant & Road Lights]

Modules Description

Computer Vision Module

Uses cameras to detect vehicles on the road.
Counts vehicles and estimates traffic density.
Sends traffic data to the AI module.
AI Module

Central brain of the system.
Determines required lighting intensity for roads based on traffic.
Predicts energy storage and distribution needs for the hydro plant.
Generates actuation commands for Arduino.
Control Module

Translates AI commands into signals for Arduino.
Ensures real-time coordination between hydro plant and road systems.
Arduino Actuation

Controls valves, turbines, and other mechanical systems in the hydro plant.
Adjusts lighting intensity on road segments.
Receives commands from the control module and executes them with precise timing.
Hydro-Power Plant

Stores energy in water reservoirs.
Rotates turbines to generate electricity.
Supplies power to the road lighting system and other loads as required.
Workflow

Cameras capture live traffic video.
Computer vision identifies vehicles and estimates traffic density.
AI module processes traffic data and calculates:
Required lighting levels
Energy generation or storage adjustments
Control module sends commands to Arduino.
Arduino opens or closes valves, adjusts turbines, and regulates lighting intensity.
The hydroelectric system stores or distributes energy as needed.
System continuously updates in real-time for optimal efficiency.
Purpose

Demonstrate intelligent integration of energy management, traffic monitoring, and AI.

Optimize hydroelectric energy storage and usage.

Improve roadway safety and efficiency through adaptive lighting.

Showcase AI-driven decision-making in industrial and infrastructure applications.

git clone <repository-url>
